New: MCAselector (#66)
FalixNodes-Software/KB-articles: content/_posts/minecraft/java/2025-11-05-mcasector.md

---
title: How To Clear Unused Chunks Of Your Minecraft Java Server
tags: General

> permalink: /minecraft/java/general/world-management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permalink: /minecraft/java/general/mcaselector
```

description: A guide on how to save diskspace by deleting unused chucks using MCAselector.
keywords:
    - keyword: mcaselector
      matches: ["how", "use"]
    - keyword: diskspace
      matches: ["full", "server", "error"]

>     - keyword: chucks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - keyword: chunks
```

      matches: ["delete", "remove", "unused"]
author:
    - TWIXhunter
    - Ely
---

> Chucks that have been loaded for less than a few minutes are usually only loaded for players traveling through them, but they still take up a lot of space in your world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chunks that have been loaded for less than a few minutes are usually just from players traveling through, but they still take up a lot of space in your world.
```

> Deleting these chunks will:
> - Reduce your world size by up to 90%
> - Not delete important chunks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deleting these chunks will:
- Significantly reduce your world size (by up to 90%)
- Preserve all important and actively used areas
```

### Download your world
1. Download your world folder by following our [World Management Guide](https://kb.falixnodes.net/minecraft/java/general/world-management#downloading-your-world).

> 2. Unarchive or unzip your world file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Extract your world file from the archive (unzip or unarchive as needed).
```

> ### How to download and install MCAselector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Download and install MCAselector
```

1. Go to the [release page](https://github.com/Querz/mcaselector/releases).

2. Scroll down to the Assets section.

3. Click on the `MCA_Selector_Setup.exe` file to download.

> {: .warning }
> > Windows flags this 3rd-party program as 'untrusted' because it isn't signed by a trusted dev, please proceed with care.
> > You can dismiss the popup by pressing "read more" and "install anyway".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{: .warning }

> Windows may flag this third-party program as 'untrusted' because it isn't digitally signed by a verified developer. Please proceed with caution.
> To continue, click "More info" and then select "Run anyway."
```

> 4. Run and complete the installer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the installer to complete the installation.
```

5. Open MCAselector

### Edit your world
1. In the top left-hand corner, hover over "file" and select "open world".

2. Open the world you have just downloaded.

3. At the top, hover over "tools" and select "filter chunks".

4. Change the default `InhabitedTime` section to (at least) `2 minutes`.

> > Setting this to more than 2 minutes can cause a destructive selection for a small gain and should only be selected if you know what you are doing.

Reviewer: An indentation perhaps

5. Press "ok" and wait for the selection to complete.

> 6. Check that you haven't deleted any important chunks (like around spawn).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Verify that you haven't deleted any important chunks (such as those near spawn).
```

7. Select or deselect chunks manually using the following keybinds. You might need to zoom in to edit individual chunks:

| Keybind      	| Description    	|
|--------------	|----------------	|
| Arrows       	| Move camera    	|
| WASD         	| Move camera    	|
| Right-Click  	| Deselect chunk 	|
| Left-Click   	| Select chunk   	|

> | Scroll       	| Zoom in/out    	|

Reviewer: An indentation here

8. At the top, hover over "Selection" and click on "Delete selected chunks".

9. Close MCAselector, your progress is automatically saved to the folder you selected.

### Upload your world
Upload your world folder by following our [World Management Guide](https://kb.falixnodes.net/minecraft/java/general/world-management#uploading-your-world).

> {: .error }
> > Make sure you empty the recycle bin after deleting the old world.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{: .error }

> Make sure you empty the recycle bin after deleting the old world.
```

---
title: How To Clear Unused Chunks Of Your Minecraft Java Server
tags: General
permalink: /minecraft/java/general/mcaselector
description: A guide on how to save diskspace by deleting unused chucks using MCAselector.
keywords:
    - keyword: mcaselector
      matches: ["how", "use"]
    - keyword: diskspace
      matches: ["full", "server", "error"]
    - keyword: chunks
      matches: ["delete", "remove", "unused"]
author:
    - TWIXhunter
    - Ely
---

Chunks that have been loaded for less than a few minutes are usually just from players traveling through, but they still take up a lot of space in your world.

> Deleting these chunks will:
> - Significantly reduce your world size (by up to 90%)
> - Preserve all important and actively used areas
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deleting these chunks will:

- Significantly reduce your world size (by up to 90%)
- Preserve all important and actively used areas
```

> ### Download your world
> 1. Download your world folder by following our [World Management Guide](https://kb.falixnodes.net/minecraft/java/general/world-management#downloading-your-world).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Download your world

1. Download your world folder by following our [World Management Guide](https://kb.falixnodes.net/minecraft/java/general/world-management#downloading-your-world).

```

> 1. Download your world folder by following our [World Management Guide](https://kb.falixnodes.net/minecraft/java/general/world-management#downloading-your-world).
> 
> 2. Extract your world file from the archive (unzip or unarchive as needed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Download your world

1. Download your world folder by following our [World Management Guide](https://kb.falixnodes.net/minecraft/java/general/world-management#downloading-your-world).
```

> ### Download and install MCAselector
> 1. Go to the [release page](https://github.com/Querz/mcaselector/releases).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Download and install MCAselector

1. Go to the [release page](https://github.com/Querz/mcaselector/releases).

```

> 
> 2. Scroll down to the Assets section.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Download and install MCAselector

1. Go to the [release page](https://github.com/Querz/mcaselector/releases).
```

> 3. Click on the `MCA_Selector_Setup.exe` file to download.
> 
> {: .warning }
> 
> > Windows may flag this third-party program as 'untrusted' because it isn't digitally signed by a verified developer. Please proceed with caution.
> > To continue, click "More info" and then select "Run anyway."
> 
> 4. Run the installer to complete the installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click on the `MCA_Selector_Setup.exe` file to download.

    {: .warning }

    > Windows may flag this third-party program as 'untrusted' because it isn't digitally signed by a verified developer. Please proceed with caution.
    > To continue, click "More info" and then select "Run anyway."

4. Run the installer to complete the installation.
```

> 
> > Windows may flag this third-party program as 'untrusted' because it isn't digitally signed by a verified developer. Please proceed with caution.
> > To continue, click "More info" and then select "Run anyway."
> 
> 4. Run the installer to complete the installation.
> 
> 5. Open MCAselector
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click on the `MCA_Selector_Setup.exe` file to download.

    {: .warning }

    > Windows may flag this third-party program as 'untrusted' because it isn't digitally signed by a verified developer. Please proceed with caution.
    > To continue, click "More info" and then select "Run anyway."

4. Run the installer to complete the installation.
```

> ### Edit your world
> 1. In the top left-hand corner, hover over "file" and select "open world".
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Edit your world

1. In the top left-hand corner, hover over "file" and select "open world".

```

> 2. Open the world you have just downloaded.
> 
> 3. At the top, hover over "tools" and select "filter chunks".
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Edit your world

1. In the top left-hand corner, hover over "file" and select "open world".

```

> 4. Change the default `InhabitedTime` section to (at least) `2 minutes`.
> 
> > Setting this to more than 2 minutes can cause a destructive selection for a small gain and should only be selected if you know what you are doing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Change the default `InhabitedTime` section to (at least) `2 minutes`.

    > Setting this to more than 2 minutes can cause a destructive selection for a small gain and should only be selected if you know what you are doing.
```

> 5. Press "ok" and wait for the selection to complete.
> 
> 6. Verify that you haven't deleted any important chunks (such as those near spawn).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Change the default `InhabitedTime` section to (at least) `2 minutes`.

    > Setting this to more than 2 minutes can cause a destructive selection for a small gain and should only be selected if you know what you are doing.

```

> 7. Select or deselect chunks manually using the following keybinds. You might need to zoom in to edit individual chunks:
> 
> | Keybind      	| Description    	|
> |--------------	|----------------	|
> | Arrows       	| Move camera    	|
> | WASD         	| Move camera    	|
> | Right-Click  	| Deselect chunk 	|
> | Left-Click   	| Select chunk   	|
> | Scroll       	| Zoom in/out    	|
> 
> 8. At the top, hover over "Selection" and click on "Delete selected chunks".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Select or deselect chunks manually using the following keybinds. You might need to zoom in to edit individual chunks:

    | Keybind      | Description    |
    |--------------|----------------|
    | Arrows       | Move camera    |
    | WASD         | Move camera    |
    | Right-Click  | Deselect chunk |
    | Left-Click   | Select chunk   |
    | Scroll       | Zoom in/out    |

8. At the top, hover over "Selection" and click on "Delete selected chunks".
```

9. Close MCAselector, your progress is automatically saved to the folder you selected.

> ### Upload your world
> Upload your world folder by following our [World Management Guide](https://kb.falixnodes.net/minecraft/java/general/world-management#uploading-your-world).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Upload your world

Upload your world folder by following our [World Management Guide](https://kb.falixnodes.net/minecraft/java/general/world-management#uploading-your-world).
```

---
title: How To Clear Unused Chunks Of Your Minecraft Java Server
tags: General
permalink: /minecraft/java/general/mcaselector
description: A guide on how to save diskspace by deleting unused chucks using MCAselector.
keywords:
    - keyword: mcaselector
      matches: ["how", "use"]
    - keyword: diskspace
      matches: ["full", "server", "error"]
    - keyword: chunks
      matches: ["delete", "remove", "unused"]
author:
    - TWIXhunter
    - Ely
---

Chunks that have been loaded for less than a few minutes are usually just from players traveling through, but they still take up a lot of space in your world.

Deleting these chunks will:

- Significantly reduce your world size (by up to 90%)

> - Preserve all important and actively used areas

Reviewer: Maybe a second level header for this....for consistency 👍

Author: hmm... I don't know if it's worth 2 headers

> - Preserve all important and actively used areas
> ### Download your world

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Preserve all important and actively used areas

### Download your world
```
